Hey everyone.
Welcome back to Boost Your Income
with Bootstrap to WordPress, and
in this lecture we are going to easily
set up a custom blog index page.
[MUSIC]
Hey guys.
Welcome back.
What we're gonna do here is
set up our blog index page.
The first thing you wanna
do is create a new page.
And just straight up call it blog.
You can call it news or,
you know, whatever.
But for the purposes of this course,
I'm gonna say stick to calling it blog.
Okay.
So we got our blog here.
Just leave the default template for now.
And we're just gonna hit publish.
We just wanna be able to add that page,
so that we can go into our settings and
reading settings.
And then posts, so
we can finally change this to blog.
So now this is telling WordPress,
hey the blog is using the blog page.
So, I know that sounds kind of stupid.
When we create a blog page, in Pages,
we can tell WordPress what to assign
the blog template to by default.
So go ahead and hit save.
And so head back to the front end
of the site, and here's your blog.
Click on that and see what we get.
So we get something.
We get kind of generic content here,
and our sample post that's provided
with most WordPress themes.
We're going to go and
make this look a lot better.
Go to your code editor and
open up the index.php file.
It looks a bit like this.
It's called the main template file.
The most generic template file in
a WordPress theme is one of two required
files for a theme.
It's used to display page when
nothing more specific matches a query.
So it puts together the homepage when
no home.page file exists, and so
on and so forth.
So we're gonna use this for
our blog index page.
It is called index, so
that works out pretty well for us.
We don't have to do too much
here on the index page.
We just have to kind of
fix up the formatting, and
it's actually surprisingly easy.
So open up the static version your blog.
So in here, in the blog to html,
the static version of it,
if you scroll down below header,
you should see a thing.
An hml5 tech called section, where we
have our feature image with the h1 for
the page title.
Copy that itself.
Go back to your index.
And right in under get_header,
paste that in there.
We're going to have that in there, and
you don't even need to do anything.
Just leave it as is.
And then down here, we're going to
repurpose this content a little bit.
So we need to grab the main tag,
right here.
And the primary and container tags.
So we basically grab all this,
but don't grab any articles.
Just mean and the two dibs,
plus the comment.
We're going to paste
that directly under here.
And then now what I want to do is
I want to close up those tags,
just to make sure we're
not Messing around here.
And then I want to close that row.
That is the idea of primary.
And then after that I want
to close up the container.
So disregard the stuff down here for
a sec.
What we want to do inside of our main tag
is include the if have_posts php.
All the way down to the endif,
so everything here.
Remove that.
Paste it in here.
There we go.
And now, after main,
we need to actually have our sidebar.
So go back to your blog.html,
the static version, and
grab the sidebar comment and
the aside opening tag.
Then all you need to do is
paste that after the main tag.
Close out that aside tag.
And then.
Inside the aside tag,
use the get sidebar function down below.
Paste it in there.
There you go.
And this looks like it's a little wonky.
I'm just gonna make sure
this is cleaned up properly.
There we go.
Okay.
And remove this.
Just mark it down here.
Now if I save that.
It looks good to me.
Let's go back to our blog index page.
There we go.
It's looking a lot better, isn't it?
So, that's really it for
setting up the blog index page.
What we're going to to do next is
actually get everything set up.
The templates set up for
the individual blog excerpts right here,
because right now it's a little messy and
it doesn't look like it should.
Which is right here.
Needs a little bit more like this.
So let's get to it.
[MUSIC]